Termubit Specification: 0072
 Title: URI Scheme Extensions for Termubit Payment Protocol
 Author: AresCyu <areshin@proton.me>
 Status: Draft
 Type: Standards Track
 Created: 2026-06-18

== Abstract ==
This document defines an extension to the `termubit:` URI scheme to natively support the Termubit Payment Protocol. This extension enables seamless integration between web-based payment requests and Termubit-compatible client software, ensuring a frictionless user experience across mobile and desktop interfaces.

== Specification ==
To ensure compatibility, Termubit client software MUST adhere to the following requirements:
* '''HTTP Header Requirements:''' Termubit client software MUST include a properly formatted "Accept" HTTP header in all outgoing requests when fetching payment details. 
* '''Header Formatting:''' The "Accept" header must explicitly prioritize the MIME types defined in [[tips-0071]]. Adherence to RFC 7231 (which obsoletes RFC 2616) is mandatory to ensure cross-platform compatibility.
* '''URI Parameter Handling:''' The `termubit:` URI scheme is extended to support an optional `request` parameter, which specifies the URL endpoint where the payment details can be retrieved. Clients must sanitize these URLs to prevent potential injection vulnerabilities.

== Security and Implementation Details ==
By enforcing strict "Accept" header compliance, we ensure that the client and the payment server are using the same communication protocol version. This prevents protocol negotiation errors that could lead to incomplete transaction broadcasting in high-latency environments like those found in mobile network usage.

== References ==
* [[tip-0070]]|Termubit Specification 0070]] : Payment Protocol
* [[tip-0071]]|Termubit Specification 0071]] : Payment Protocol MIME types
* RFC 7231 : Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Semantics and Content
